README.md, before:

# SwiftTypedRouter

### Strongly typed routing for SwiftUI

[![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/deanWombourne/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/deanWombourne/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)

## Installation

It's a cocoapod. Add `pod 'SwiftTypedRouter'` to your podfile.

Check out the example app in this repo to see this in action.

## Basic use

### Setup

On startup (probably in your `SceneDelegate`) register routes with a `Router`

```swift
let router = Router()

router.add("home") { HomeView() }

router.add("product/list/:cat/:num") { (category: String, page: Int) in
  ProductListView(category, page)
}

router.add("product/details/:id") { (id: String) in 
  ProductDetailsView(id: id)
}
```

And make the router accessible to your views

```swift
yourFirstView
  .withRouter(router)
```

### Usage

Given a path, a router will return a View (or it's own 404 view if it can't find a matching one)

```swift
  NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/list/hats/0")) {
    Text("See a list of Hats")
  }
```

You can also check ahead of time whether the router will match a path or not. NB: This is faster than checking `view(_:) != nil`

```swift
if router.canMatch("product/list/hats/0") {
    NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/list/hats/0")) {
      Text("See a list of Hats")
    }
} else {
    Text("No Hats For You")
}
```

## Advanced Usage

The basic usage passes around a lot of strings. That's fine, but you can use the router with a more strongly typed set of values.

# Template

Calling `router.add("product/details/:id")` is, behind the scenes, making a `Template` type using the path passed in and the parameters of the action block. You can make a `Template` yourself using a `TemplateFactory`.

```swift
extension Template {
  static let productDetails = TemplateFactory.start().path("product", "details").placeholder("id", String.self).template()
}
```

And you can use it when adding an action to the router

```swift

// Old
// router.add("product/details/:id") { (id: String) in 

// With template
router.add(Template.productDetails) { id in
  ProductDetailsView(id: id)
}
```

So far, there isn't that much benefit.

You can also use the template to create paths to pass into the router - these will then be type-safe.

```swift
extension Path {
  static func productDetails(id: String) -> Path { Template.productDetails.path(id) }
}
```

Now, when you use the router to find a view you would do this:

```swift
  // Old
  // NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/details/123456")) {

  NavigationLink(destination: router.view(.productDetails(id: "123456"))) {
    Text("See Product Details")
  }
```

It's a bit more typing to set up, but as you're only ever typing in the path once the compiler does all the sanity error checking for you.

# Aliases

Sometimes, you want to configure your app on a more granular level i.e. you want product/details/123 to go to a product details screen, but you want to override the destination of specific ui elements.

If you have access to the code of the source view then this is trivial - just edit the file :) However, if your view is in a library you might want to configure multiple apps to have different behaviours. Aliases allow you to do that.

An alias redirects a path to another path, with a richer context.

For example, if we have a + button on a screen containing a list of products, we would do this:

1) (optional) Create a context type (this can be `Void` if you want)

```swift
struct ProductListAliasContext {
  let category: MyCategoryType
}
```

2) Create an Alias - it's identifier can be anything you want, but make it unique

```swift
let productListPlusTapAlias = Alias<ProductListAliasContext>("product.list.plus.tap")
```

3) Configure your router to redirect that alias to the correct path

```swift
router.alias(productListPlusTapAlias) { context in
  if context.category == "hats" {
    return Path.specialHatHandlingView
  } else {
    return Path.normalProductAddView
  }
}
```

4) Use the alias instead of the path directly in the view

```swift
  var context: ProductListAliasContext { ProductListAliasContext(category: self.categpory) }
  ...
  NavigationLink(destination: router.view(productListPlusTapAlias, context: context))) {
    Text("+")
  }
```

NB If you don't want a context, define your alias as `Alias<Void>("some.identifier")` and you don't need to pass a context parameter around.

Commit message:

Added goals section to README

README.md, after:

# SwiftTypedRouter

### Strongly typed routing for SwiftUI

[![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/deanWombourne/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/deanWombourne/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/SwiftTypedRouter.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftTypedRouter)

## Goals of this library

- Swift is strongly typed. How strongly typed can we make a routing library?
- Single location to customise routing
- Routing should be customisable even when the code running is in another library (i.e. if we have some shared code we should be able to configure it's flow)

## Installation

It's a cocoapod. Add `pod 'SwiftTypedRouter'` to your podfile.

Check out the example app in this repo to see this in action.

## Basic use

### Setup

On startup (probably in your `SceneDelegate`) register routes with a `Router`

```swift
let router = Router()

router.add("home") { HomeView() }

router.add("product/list/:cat/:num") { (category: String, page: Int) in
  ProductListView(category, page)
}

router.add("product/details/:id") { (id: String) in 
  ProductDetailsView(id: id)
}
```

And make the router accessible to your views

```swift
yourFirstView
  .withRouter(router)
```

### Usage

Given a path, a router will return a View (or it's own 404 view if it can't find a matching one)

```swift
  NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/list/hats/0")) {
    Text("See a list of Hats")
  }
```

You can also check ahead of time whether the router will match a path or not. NB: This is faster than checking `view(_:) != nil`

```swift
if router.canMatch("product/list/hats/0") {
    NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/list/hats/0")) {
      Text("See a list of Hats")
    }
} else {
    Text("No Hats For You")
}
```

## Advanced Usage

The basic usage passes around a lot of strings. That's fine, but you can use the router with a more strongly typed set of values.

# Template

Calling `router.add("product/details/:id")` is, behind the scenes, making a `Template` type using the path passed in and the parameters of the action block. You can make a `Template` yourself using a `TemplateFactory`.

```swift
extension Template {
  static let productDetails = TemplateFactory.start().path("product", "details").placeholder("id", String.self).template()
}
```

And you can use it when adding an action to the router

```swift

// Old
// router.add("product/details/:id") { (id: String) in 

// With template
router.add(Template.productDetails) { id in
  ProductDetailsView(id: id)
}
```

So far, there isn't that much benefit.

You can also use the template to create paths to pass into the router - these will then be type-safe.

```swift
extension Path {
  static func productDetails(id: String) -> Path { Template.productDetails.path(id) }
}
```

Now, when you use the router to find a view you would do this:

```swift
  // Old
  // NavigationLink(destination: router.view("product/details/123456")) {

  NavigationLink(destination: router.view(.productDetails(id: "123456"))) {
    Text("See Product Details")
  }
```

It's a bit more typing to set up, but as you're only ever typing in the path once the compiler does all the sanity error checking for you.

# Aliases

Sometimes, you want to configure your app on a more granular level i.e. you want product/details/123 to go to a product details screen, but you want to override the destination of specific ui elements.

If you have access to the code of the source view then this is trivial - just edit the file :) However, if your view is in a library you might want to configure multiple apps to have different behaviours. Aliases allow you to do that.

An alias redirects a path to another path, with a richer context.

For example, if we have a + button on a screen containing a list of products, we would do this:

1) (optional) Create a context type (this can be `Void` if you want)

```swift
struct ProductListAliasContext {
  let category: MyCategoryType
}
```

2) Create an Alias - it's identifier can be anything you want, but make it unique

```swift
let productListPlusTapAlias = Alias<ProductListAliasContext>("product.list.plus.tap")
```

3) Configure your router to redirect that alias to the correct path

```swift
router.alias(productListPlusTapAlias) { context in
  if context.category == "hats" {
    return Path.specialHatHandlingView
  } else {
    return Path.normalProductAddView
  }
}
```

4) Use the alias instead of the path directly in the view

```swift
  var context: ProductListAliasContext { ProductListAliasContext(category: self.categpory) }
  ...
  NavigationLink(destination: router.view(productListPlusTapAlias, context: context))) {
    Text("+")
  }
```

NB If you don't want a context, define your alias as `Alias<Void>("some.identifier")` and you don't need to pass a context parameter around.
